having looked at the basics of weaving
by weaving Helens name in cord we're
going to jump directly to a weave that's
almost finished now and I will just
finish it off it's sat on my clemens
lathe and I would suggest any of the
proprietary brands of rod lathe are
required to do weaving effectively the
pattern we're doing isn't george's
cross' it consists of two layers of
thread and each layer is 25 threads so
it's a 50 thread pattern and I'm using
it on a black background so I'm trying
to finish the upright on the red that's
my final turn to show the upright of the
Red Cross what I'm now going to do is
move all the red threads to the right
there's no whites to show
it's patently been completed in a thread
which is commercially the fire stretch
we have available at the moment many
patterns and especially the multicolored
patterns you'll find a design to work
with threads like Madeira which are even
finer then a thread I've recently done
some lettering using silk similar to a
Passau silk which again is about 50% the
diameter of this a thread so we're
getting now near the end of transferring
our red threads so right
okay that's my counts done and I'll
finish the main part for pattern
probably just going to bring all the
whites back over the right-hand side
okay we've got the cross basically
formed I'm just going to put a thread to
tie it off my first part of the process
off its created the loop on the opposite
side of the weave and just cut it I'm
not going to put it right through
because my next job is to actually check
the work and we use a variety of tools
now to polish off the word this is a
packer
it's just a nylon tip nice one-hand wrap
slight with a flat bar and these are
dental tools piece pushers and lifters
all designed just to help it thread work
right there we have listened george's
cross' once we've packed and got all our
threads in place and we're quite happy
with it we then just trim off the excess
thread from each end I said that a weave
uses a lot of thread there's 50 strands
of thread here each which we're just
over a foot long sorry I'm still in old
money so 50 odd foot of thread and we
have a pattern which actually is one
centimetre long in its finished form so
you can see how much thread it uses just
a convergent or just flatten off the
ends here I'm going to change to work
over the top of the thread rather than
come up from underneath
ah cute
kind of my game
finish loop ready
you
and then clearly you wrap off the
opposite end and you've got your
finished weave